Norwich Technical High School - Electronics Technology Date Updated: 2/27/24 7 Mahan Drive Norwich, C 06360
TITLE: Resin Wash and Cure
Aprovals:
Author: Myles Mercado Date: 2/27/24

1. Revision History:
M.M. - A - 2/27/24 - Initial release

2. Purpose:
2.1. Washing and post-curing of printed objects on 3d printers.

3. Safety:
3.1. Wear Gloves
3.2. Don’t touch your eyes while using the printer.

4. Materials: 

Wash and cure 2.0
Power adaptor/Power cord
Washing rack
Washing basket
Washing bucket
Reflector
Curing Table
Washing liquid (alcohol, detergent solution, etc)

5. Procedure:

Step Procedure 1 (wash mode)

1. Plug in the power, turn on the machine.

2. Put the 3d printed piece into the washing basket.

3. Put the washing basket into the washing bucket and pour washing liquid into the bucket then seal the washing bucket with the bucket lid.

4. Place the bucket firmly on the platform.

5. Switch the machine to wash mode by pressing the mode button. Then turn the time knob to set the washing time and press the knob to start.

6. Once washing is complete, a beeping sound will indicate it’s finished. After the model is washed it is suggested to air dry the model before proceeding to the next post cure process.

Step Procedure 2 (cure mode)

Place reflector, curing table, 3d print, and lid.

Switch the machine to cure mode by pressing the mode button. Then turn the time knob to correct time and press knob to start.

After the curing is complete, a beeping sound will indicate it’s finished.

Step Procedure 3 (maintenance recycling of washing liquid)

After cleaning about 30 3d printed models the alcohol might become muddy.

Allow liquid to stay still for over 10 hours so the residue can precipitate and settle.

Pour the top layer of washing liquid into another container and then dispose the residue (Expose the residue in the sunlight until the liquid is completely evaporated then the cured resin can be treated like general solid waste)

After disposing the waste, rinse the bucket several times with water (if the bottom isn’t clearing from just rinsing remove bucket rotor and rinse them separately)

To take off rotor loosen the screw and remove the rotor (take off the screw and washer)

After cleaning the bucket, pour the filtered washing liquid into the washing bucket and cover with lid for future use.





